The methodology used for the project is divided into following parts:
• Choice of software and API preference
• Choice of design
• Storage of data
• Functionalities to be added
• Flow Chart

Choice of software and API preference
There are various software available in the market today that can be used to make the android
applications. For e.g., Android Studio, Visual Studio and more. But, for accomplishment for
our project, the chosen software is Android Studio. The reason to pick it up rather than other
software is the fact that both the backend and frontend programming can be done easily.

Choice of design and user interface
The user interface is to be made in such a way, that its easy to understand for new users and
also the functionalities are self explanatory, quick and easy to understand by both users and
supervisors of those complaints.
The choice of design include, designing of the various parts:
o Logos
o Tables
o Interface of different pages
o Navigation bar
The basis of designing in Android Studio lies on our knowledge of XML. XML helps
in designing the different layouts. To use it, we need to add a dependency in the
gradle file of Android Studio: design. This dependency must be the most recent
software update, our API is running on.
Combining basic knowledge of XML with material design can make us make several
layouts that are not only visually appealing but also can be made complex or simple
on the basis of our requirement.
The design of one single layout is comprised of various parts. Those parts are
different TextView, background, EditText, Buttons and more.

Storage of Data
The storage of data is important because we are supposed to store, the real-time data
of the registered users and also check if the email and password entered are correct
via authentication.
Out of several databases available, including Android Studio’s own SQLite, which is
a SQL database, we decided to go with Firebase. Firebase is and open source, online
cloud that gives us various functionalities including, authentication for user
registration and login, database, ML Toolkit and much more for storage and usage.
The advantages of Firebase are the availability of several features that are useful to us
and also its very own real-time database that stores and checks for user data in the real
time if the user has the internet connection. One of the salient features of the Firebase
real-time database is, it is a NoSQL database. And also it’s open source, so it’s
available for free to the users who require it.

Functionalities to be added
There are many functionalities that could be added in the given time period. We were
asked to design an application with basic functions that an app for complaint
management would be required to do. Here, I will list all the functionalities that the
application has and describe its significance in the app.
i. Registration and Login of Users
ii. Supervisors are already registered in the database and don’t have to
register.
iii. For Users: After login, a page will open for them to register a
complaint. It will also have a Navigation bar that will have 4 options:
Profile option to view the profile of the logged in user, then past
complaints registered, help to get any help and logout option.
iv. For supervisors: After Login, they will have two functionalities on
dashboard, Registering a complaint as well as viewing the complaint.
For viewing the complaint, there were several options available, like
ListView, RecyclerView and more but we went with RecyclerView
because its not only quick but also allows us to give sufficient space to
each block of information on the screen as it can be seen on the next
page.
v. For users: After tapping registering a complaint, another screen opens
up that allows users to input the person, on who’s behalf the complain
was written and also, the building name, the floor number, the details
of the complaint, the remarks and also the phone number to get in
touch with.
vi. After that another page opens up to see the “Review the complaint”
page where a user can see if he needs to make any changes or the or
the registered complaint is good as it is.
vii. From there, there would also be option for the users to go back to the
Dashboard or directly, Logout.

